.Dd July 18, 2026
.Dt NETFLECTOR 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm netflector
.Nd reflect link-local service-discovery traffic between two interfaces
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -check-config
.Op Fl -
.Op Ar config
.Nm
.Fl V | Fl -version
.Nm
.Fl h | Fl -help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
relays link-local service-discovery traffic between two network interfaces:
clients on the source interface discover, wake, and reach devices on the
target interface, not the other way around.
It reflects Wake-on-LAN, mDNS, SSDP, WS-Discovery, and DIAL; each is enabled
per interface pair in the configuration.
.Pp
The daemon runs in the foreground and logs to standard error with UTC
timestamps.
It opens raw captures on the configured interfaces, so it normally runs as
root.
.Pp
.Nm
adapts to interface changes at runtime, with no restart needed.
Reflection for an address family pauses while a required address is missing
and resumes when it returns; an interface that is destroyed and recreated is
picked up again under its new kernel identity.
.Pp
Configuration comes from a TOML file, from
.Ev NETFLECTOR_ Ns *
environment variables, or from both; see
.Xr netflector.toml 5 .
Given a
.Ar config
file,
.Nm
reads it and merges any environment variables on top of it.
Given no configuration file, the environment is the whole configuration.
.Ss Options
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -check-config
Load and validate the configuration, then exit.
This parses only: it opens no interface, so it needs no privileges and cannot
report that an interface is missing or unreachable.
On success it prints
.Ql config ok: N reflector(s)
and exits 0; on a rejected configuration it prints the reason and exits 1.
.It Fl V , Fl -version
Print the version and exit.
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Print a usage summary and exit.
.El
.Pp
.Fl -help
and
.Fl -version
are answered before anything else on the command line.
A lone
.Ql -
is read as a path, not an option.
.Fl -
ends option parsing, so a configuration file whose name begins with a dash
stays reachable:
.Ql netflector \-\- \-\-check-config
reads a file named
.Pa \-\-check-config .
.Sh SIGNALS
.Bl -tag -width "SIGTERM"
.It Dv SIGINT , Dv SIGTERM
Shut down gracefully.
.It Dv SIGUSR1
Dump diagnostics to the log: the per-interface packet counters
.Pq see Sx DIAGNOSTICS
and a memory report (current and peak RSS).
This works on demand even when the periodic reports are disabled.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Every setting has an environment-variable form, named
.Ev NETFLECTOR_ Ns Ao Ar TAG Ac Ns _ Ns Ao Ar PARAM Ac ,
plus the globals
.Ev NETFLECTOR_LOG_LEVEL ,
.Ev NETFLECTOR_DEBUG_MEMORY_INTERVAL_SECS ,
and
.Ev NETFLECTOR_COUNTERS_INTERVAL_SECS .
.Xr netflector.toml 5
documents the grammar and the file/environment merge.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /usr/local/etc/netflector.toml
Configuration file the
.Xr rc 8
service reads by default.
.Nm
itself has no built-in path; the service supplies one.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
The error is reported through the log, so
.Ql log_level = \&"off\&"
silences even the failure message.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Validate a configuration without starting the daemon:
.Pp
.Dl netflector --check-config /usr/local/etc/netflector.toml
.Pp
Reflect mDNS between two interfaces, configured from the environment alone:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
NETFLECTOR_TV_SOURCE_IF=em0 \e
NETFLECTOR_TV_TARGET_IF=em1 \e
NETFLECTOR_TV_MDNS=true \e
netflector
.Ed
.Pp
Enable and start the service:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
sysrc netflector_enable=YES
service netflector start
.Ed
.Pp
The service reads
.Va netflector_config
from
.Xr rc.conf 5
for the configuration path.
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The counter summary, logged periodically when enabled and on
.Dv SIGUSR1 ,
tallies per interface what happened to each packet, by message type
.Pq e.g. Ql mDNS query reflected=42 skipped=10; filtered=2 :
.Bl -tag -width "recoveries"
.It Sy reflected
Re-emitted on the other interface.
.It Sy skipped
Recognized, but arrived in a direction the entry does not relay.
This is normal; it is also what keeps reflected packets from looping.
.It Sy dropped
Should have been reflected, but the re-emit failed: a send error or a
resource cap.
.It Sy stalled
Should have been reflected, but the egress interface had no source address
of the packet's family yet.
.It Sy filtered
Not a message
.Nm
handles: unrecognized traffic on the group, or an address family the entry
does not cover.
.It Sy recoveries
Times the interface was destroyed and recreated, and its capture re-bound.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr netflector.toml 5 ,
.Xr rc.conf 5 ,
.Xr daemon 8 ,
.Xr service 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Sergii Bogomolov
