.Dd July 18, 2026
.Dt NETFLECTOR.TOML 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm netflector.toml
.Nd configuration file for netflector
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The configuration for
.Xr netflector 8
is TOML: optional top-level settings and at least one reflector entry.
Every setting has an environment-variable form as well
.Pq see Sx ENVIRONMENT ;
the file is optional when the environment carries the whole configuration.
.Pp
A reflector entry is a table under
.Ic reflectors ,
keyed by a name used as its label in the log
.Pq Ic \&[reflectors\&. Ns Ar name Ns Ic \&] .
Each entry exposes the devices on its
.Ic target_if
to the clients on its
.Ic source_if ,
for any combination of the protocols; the other direction is not exposed.
No IP addresses appear anywhere in the configuration; interfaces are named,
and their addresses are resolved at runtime.
An unknown key, at the top level or in an entry, is rejected at startup.
.Ss Top-level settings
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic log_level
Log verbosity, one of
.Cm off , error , warning , info , debug ,
or
.Cm trace .
Default
.Cm info .
.It Ic debug_memory_interval_secs
Seconds between memory (RSS and peak) diagnostic reports.
.Cm 0
or absent disables them.
Default
.Cm 0 .
.It Ic counters_interval_secs
Seconds between per-interface packet-counter summaries.
.Cm 0
or absent disables them.
Default
.Cm 0 .
.El
.Pp
Both intervals are capped at one year; a larger value is rejected at startup.
.Ss Reflector entry
Keys under
.Ic \&[reflectors\&. Ns Ar name Ns Ic \&] :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic source_if
The interface the clients are on.
Required; must differ from
.Ic target_if .
.It Ic target_if
The interface the devices are on.
Required.
.It Ic macs
Optional list of MAC addresses limiting the entry to specific devices on
.Ic target_if :
only the listed devices are reflected or woken, across every protocol the
entry enables.
Omit it to cover the whole segment.
An empty list is rejected.
.It Ic address_family
.Cm default
(the default) attempts both families, requires IPv4, and treats IPv6 as
best-effort;
.Cm dual
requires both;
.Cm ipv4
and
.Cm ipv6
use one family only.
A required family that cannot be initialized fails startup; a best-effort
one is skipped and the entry runs on the family it has.
.It Ic wol
Enable Wake-on-LAN reflection.
Boolean, default
.Cm false .
.It Ic wol_ports
UDP ports to match Wake-on-LAN magic packets on.
A list of unique ports in the range 1 to 65535, default
.Bq Cm 7 , 9 .
Valid only when
.Ic wol
is enabled.
.It Ic mdns
Enable mDNS reflection.
Boolean, default
.Cm false .
.It Ic ssdp
Enable SSDP reflection.
Boolean, default
.Cm false .
.It Ic dial
Enable the DIAL application proxy.
Boolean, default
.Cm false .
DIAL (Discovery and Launch, the protocol behind
.Dq cast to TV )
lets a client find a smart TV and launch an app on it.
Reflected discovery alone is often not enough to drive the TV: the follow-up
HTTP requests go to the TV's address on the other segment, which the client
may not be able to reach, and some TVs refuse off-subnet clients outright.
.Ic dial
closes that gap by proxying those requests between the segments.
Requires
.Ic ssdp
and, because the DIAL protocol itself is IPv4-only, an IPv4-capable
.Ic address_family :
an
.Cm ipv6 Ns -only
entry with
.Ic dial
is rejected at startup.
.It Ic wsd
Enable WS-Discovery reflection.
Boolean, default
.Cm false .
.El
.Pp
An entry must enable at least one protocol.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Every setting can come from the environment, which suits containers.
Variables are named
.Ev NETFLECTOR_ Ns Ao Ar TAG Ac Ns _ Ns Ao Ar PARAM Ac :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Aq Ar TAG
Ties one entry's parameters together: any alphanumeric string.
It also becomes the entry's name unless a
.Ic NAME
parameter overrides it.
.It Aq Ar PARAM
.Ic NAME ,
or any entry field:
.Ic SOURCE_IF , TARGET_IF , MACS , WOL , MDNS , SSDP , WSD , DIAL ,
.Ic WOL_PORTS , ADDRESS_FAMILY .
Case-insensitive.
.El
.Pp
The globals are
.Ev NETFLECTOR_LOG_LEVEL ,
.Ev NETFLECTOR_DEBUG_MEMORY_INTERVAL_SECS ,
and
.Ev NETFLECTOR_COUNTERS_INTERVAL_SECS ,
so
.Cm LOG , DEBUG ,
and
.Cm COUNTERS
are reserved tags.
Booleans are
.Cm true Ns / Ns Cm false
or
.Cm 1 Ns / Ns Cm 0 ;
.Ic MACS
and
.Ic WOL_PORTS
are comma-separated.
An unknown parameter, a non-alphanumeric or reserved tag, and a tag with no
parameter are all rejected at startup.
.Pp
When a file and the environment are both present they merge into one
configuration.
Each global variable overrides its file counterpart; entries from each source
are combined, and
.Sx DUPLICATE DETECTION
applies across both.
.Sh DUPLICATE DETECTION
Entry names must be unique across the file and the environment; a name that
appears twice, including the same name from both sources, is rejected at
startup.
.Pp
Beyond names, two entries that enable the same protocol are rejected only when
they could reflect the same packet twice: same
.Ic source_if ,
same
.Ic target_if ,
overlapping MAC selection, overlapping address-family handling, and, for
Wake-on-LAN, at least one shared port.
MAC selection overlaps when the allow-sets share a device or either entry omits
its filter.
Address families overlap when both handle the same IP version:
.Cm ipv4 Ns -only
and
.Cm ipv6 Ns -only
never overlap, while
.Cm default
and
.Cm dual
overlap with either.
Entries that differ in interface, MAC, address family, or Wake-on-LAN ports, or
that enable different protocols, coexist.
.Sh EXAMPLES
One interface pair scoped to a single TV, reflecting several protocols:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
log_level = "info"

[reflectors.tv]
source_if = "em0"
target_if = "em1"
macs      = ["B0:37:95:C5:60:BE"]
wol       = true
mdns      = true
ssdp      = true
dial      = true
.Ed
.Pp
The same entry in the environment:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
NETFLECTOR_LOG_LEVEL=info
NETFLECTOR_TV_SOURCE_IF=em0
NETFLECTOR_TV_TARGET_IF=em1
NETFLECTOR_TV_MACS=B0:37:95:C5:60:BE
NETFLECTOR_TV_WOL=true
NETFLECTOR_TV_MDNS=true
NETFLECTOR_TV_SSDP=true
NETFLECTOR_TV_DIAL=true
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr netflector 8
